h1. Thumbs

Image server proxy that can resize images on the fly. Built in ruby as a Rack application.

h2. Requirements

 * rack
 * rack-contrib
 * mini_magick

h2. Usage

1. as a standalone rack app

config.ru

bc.. require "rubygems"
require 'thumbs'

run Thumbs.new(
    :url_map         => "/:size/:original_url", # url pattern, :original_url is required
    :thumbs_folder   => "public/system/thumbs", # default: false - do not write on disk
    :cache           => true,                   # cache resized images - has no effect unless thumbs_folder exist
    :cache_original  => true,                   # cache original images - has no effect unless thumbs_folder exist
    :runtime         => true,                   # add X-Runtime header
    :cache_control => {
      :ttl           => 86400,                  # add Expires and Cache-Control header for 24h
      :last_modified => true                    # add Last-Modfied header
    },
    :etag            => true,                   # add ETag
    :logfile         => false                   # will write log file if filepath is provided
    :server_name     => "Thumbs/0.0.8",         # Server header
    :image_not_found => "image_not_found.jpg"   # path to image_not_found
  )

2. as a moundable rails app

YourApplication::Application.routes.draw do

  mount Thumbs.new(:url_map => "/:size/:original_url") => "images/resized"

  ....
end

3. you can even use it on heroku for free

  create your own rack app, or use this one: http://thumbs-gem.heroku.com/i/100x100/www.google.com/images/logos/ps_logo2.png
  
h2. TODO

 * Tests!
 * Access control
 * SSL support

h2. Contributing

 * Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
 * Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
 * Fork the project
 * Start a feature/bugfix branch
 * Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
 * Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
 * Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Marcin Ciunelis. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

